readme.md, before:

# Taric API

## Overview

This API provides access to Taric XML files that have been generated by the DIT Tariff Application.

Taric files are processed in sequential order so a client system knowing the last file that was imported could retrieve the next file in sequence.

Files are indexed by date to allow the respective file(s) for a particular date (typically yesterday) to be retrieved.

For example:

**DATE**    | **FILE(S)**
---|---
2019-01-02  | 190001
2019-01-03  | 190002, 190003 
2019-01-04  | 190004
2019-01-07  | 190005

## API endpoints

### taricdeltas -- List files available by date

**/api/v1/taricdeltas/**{date}

{date} defaults to yesterday

{date} must be in YYYY-MM-DD format

e.g.

```
curl -H "X-API-KEY: abc123" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricdeltas

curl -H "X-API-KEY: abc123" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricdeltas/2018-12-01
```
### taricfiles -- Get specific file

**/api/v1/taricfiles/**{sequenceid}

{sequenceid} is a 6 digit number

e.g.
```
curl -H "X-API-KEY: abc123" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricfiles/18004
```


### taricfiles - (Upload) Post specific file

**/api/v1/taricfiles/**{sequenceid}

{sequenceid} is a 6 digit number

{file} as form element

e.g.
```
curl --form file=@/users/dave/downloads/Taric3_files/TGB18146.xml -H "X-API-KEY: def456" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricfiles/18146
```

# Security mechanisms

Api key (`X-API-KEY`) in HTTP request header is required for authentication.

Api key for upload is separate.

Access to the API endpoints is for whitelisted IP addresses. IP address is identified from the request header and using the `X-Forwarded-For` header if available. 

Uploads are permitted from separate whitelist of IP addresses.


# Installation

##  Environment Variables

**NAME**            | **PURPOSE**
---|---
API_ROOT            | URL prefix for serving files
TARIC_FILES_FOLDER  | Location for Taric files (defaults to /)
TARIC_FILES_INDEX   | Location of index file (defaults to /)
API_KEYS            | Comma separated list of API keys that are SHA256 encoded
WHITELIST           | Comma separated list of whitelisted source IP addresses **
APIKEYS_UPLOAD      | Same as API_KEYS above - except these are the keys authorised to upload Taric files
WHITELIST_UPLOAD    | Same as WHITELIST above - except these are the IP addresses whitelisted to upload Taric files
AWS_BUCKET_NAME     | S3 bucket storing the Taric files ***
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID   | S3 Access key
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY   | S3 Secret

** IP addresses can be a range such as 11.22.33.44/24

*** Storage can be S3 or local - depends on the module used in the build / import - either **apifile.py** _or_ **apifiles3.py**



##  Local Installation
virtualenv is recommended

```
$ virtualenv taric-api
$ source taric-api/bin/activate
(taric-api) $ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

##  Cloudfoundry Installation
procfile and manifest.yml are provided

Using the Cloudfoundry cli:
```
cf push APP-NAME --no-start
cf set-env APP-NAME API_ROOT "https://APP-NAME.domain"
...
```

# Testing

The strategy is to use a Unix shell script and curl commands, compare the response codes.

`tests/runtests.sh` checks API response codes against expected. Note that the http header X-Forwarded-For is inserted for local testing. This should be removed when testing via a proxy or in a cloud environment. 

`tests/testserver.sh` is a sample script to start a server locally with environment variables.

Note that test data setup and cleardown are not provided at this time.
 
# Further detail

The complete API specification is documented and available in a separate word document.

Commit message:

refactor: use pip-tools to manage requirements

readme.md, after:

# Taric API

## Overview

This API provides access to Taric XML files that have been generated by the DIT Tariff Application.

Taric files are processed in sequential order so a client system knowing the last file that was imported could retrieve the next file in sequence.

Files are indexed by date to allow the respective file(s) for a particular date (typically yesterday) to be retrieved.

For example:

**DATE**    | **FILE(S)**
---|---
2019-01-02  | 190001
2019-01-03  | 190002, 190003 
2019-01-04  | 190004
2019-01-07  | 190005

## API endpoints

### taricdeltas -- List files available by date

**/api/v1/taricdeltas/**{date}

{date} defaults to yesterday

{date} must be in YYYY-MM-DD format

e.g.

```
curl -H "X-API-KEY: abc123" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricdeltas

curl -H "X-API-KEY: abc123" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricdeltas/2018-12-01
```
### taricfiles -- Get specific file

**/api/v1/taricfiles/**{sequenceid}

{sequenceid} is a 6 digit number

e.g.
```
curl -H "X-API-KEY: abc123" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricfiles/18004
```


### taricfiles - (Upload) Post specific file

**/api/v1/taricfiles/**{sequenceid}

{sequenceid} is a 6 digit number

{file} as form element

e.g.
```
curl --form file=@/users/dave/downloads/Taric3_files/TGB18146.xml -H "X-API-KEY: def456" localhost:8080/api/v1/taricfiles/18146
```

# Security mechanisms

Api key (`X-API-KEY`) in HTTP request header is required for authentication.

Api key for upload is separate.

Access to the API endpoints is for whitelisted IP addresses. IP address is identified from the request header and using the `X-Forwarded-For` header if available. 

Uploads are permitted from separate whitelist of IP addresses.


# Installation

##  Environment Variables

**NAME**            | **PURPOSE**
---|---
API_ROOT            | URL prefix for serving files
TARIC_FILES_FOLDER  | Location for Taric files (defaults to /)
TARIC_FILES_INDEX   | Location of index file (defaults to /)
API_KEYS            | Comma separated list of API keys that are SHA256 encoded
WHITELIST           | Comma separated list of whitelisted source IP addresses **
APIKEYS_UPLOAD      | Same as API_KEYS above - except these are the keys authorised to upload Taric files
WHITELIST_UPLOAD    | Same as WHITELIST above - except these are the IP addresses whitelisted to upload Taric files
AWS_BUCKET_NAME     | S3 bucket storing the Taric files ***
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID   | S3 Access key
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY   | S3 Secret

** IP addresses can be a range such as 11.22.33.44/24

*** Storage can be S3 or local - depends on the module used in the build / import - either **apifile.py** _or_ **apifiles3.py**



##  Local Installation
Virtualenv is recommended. `pip-tools` is used to manage live and dev dependencies.

```
$ virtualenv taric-api
$ source taric-api/bin/activate
(taric-api) $ pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

##  Cloudfoundry Installation
procfile and manifest.yml are provided

Using the Cloudfoundry cli:
```
cf push APP-NAME --no-start
cf set-env APP-NAME API_ROOT "https://APP-NAME.domain"
...
```

## Updating dependencies

Edit `requirements.in` or `requirements-dev.in` and run the following

```
$ pip-compile requirements.in
$ pip-compile requirements-dev.in
```

# Testing

The strategy is to use a Unix shell script and curl commands, compare the response codes.

`tests/runtests.sh` checks API response codes against expected. Note that the http header X-Forwarded-For is inserted for local testing. This should be removed when testing via a proxy or in a cloud environment. 

`tests/testserver.sh` is a sample script to start a server locally with environment variables.

Note that test data setup and cleardown are not provided at this time.
 
# Further detail

The complete API specification is documented and available in a separate word document.
